IV - PROTECTOR'S DUTY
- LUCAS: Don't.
I know it's hard
but it has to be done.
- AMICIA: It's been two days.
How can you stand there
and do nothing?
He doesn't deserve this.
I'm taking him out of there.
- LUCAS: Amicia, don't.
- VAUDIN: The Carrier reaching the last threshold,
there's a rare event.
A critical one.
Of course, from now on,
we need to isolate him.
The Order has special buildings.
- AMICIA: You want to lock him away?
- VAUDIN: Do you know
what your brother is capable of?
He would do much worse.
- AMICIA: Hey! He's a child!
This is not his fault!
And the more you hurt him...
The more rats are out there
and the more people die!
- VAUDIN: This is why
we need to take him away.
His power will grow stronger
as his days draw shorter.
- BÉATRICE: Magister, please.
- AMICIA: What? What do you mean?
- BÉATRICE: Amicia...
Hugo is condemned.
- VAUDIN: The last threshold
means the death of the Carrier.
- AMICIA: No... There must be a way...
Lucas managed to...
- VAUDIN: Your friend... bought you time
when your brother reached the first threshold.
But this is something else.
There is no stopping it.
No elixir, no potion.
- AMICIA: Wait.
There's an island,
he keeps talking about an island.
Maybe the Macula is behind it.
- VAUDIN: It is a child's fantasy.
- AMICIA: We need...
- AMICIA: So what a child's fantasy doing
on the wall of your laboratory?
Yes... what's out there?
- VAUDIN: Poor girl...
You're running away from reality.
You must accept your brother's fate
and your own.
And the fate of a Protector is to do
what the Order commands.
- AMICIA: I don't give a damn about your order.
I don't know you, I don't work for you.
Let me see him!
- BÉATRICE: Hugo is tired, Amicia.
You can't enter his room in your state.
- AMICIA: Let... me... past!
- BÉATRICE: Not until you've calmed down.
You've said it yourself...
the Macula feeds on his emotion.
- AMICIA: (FRUSTRATINGLY SHOUTS)
- VAUDIN: We are going...
...to the Order's quarter
in Marseille as soon as possible
I've got a boat...
And a man, Joseph,
waiting at the habour.
He needs to be warned.
As for me, I'm going to rest.
Let me know when you're ready to go.
- BÉATRICE: Lucas.
Please go to the habour
and find this Joseph.
- LUCAS: Yes, Magistra.
Amicia...
You should come.
- BÉATRICE: Be careful...
Both of you.
- LUCAS: Are you...
...alright?
- AMICIA: No!
Did you know about Hugo?
- LUCAS: I...
I wanted to tell you, but...
- AMICIA: You should've.
We're talking about my brother, Lucas.
- LUCAS: I didn't know Magister Vaudin
would tell you like this.
- AMICIA: Lord... I can't...
(FRUSTRATION) Let's just keep going.
- LUCAS: Fine.
- SOLDIER: Here ye... A curfew
has been ordered by the Count of Arles.
All townsfolks stay in your homes.
- AMICIA: A patrol.
- MAN: What's going on?
- SOLDIER: The city is under lockdown.
Anyone caught on the street will be arrested.
- AMICIA: There we are.
They're locking down the whole city.
- LUCAS: I don't know.
- AMICIA: We need that boat quickly.
- SOLDIER: There is no need to panic.
The Army of Provence said
the situation is under control.
- AMICIA: Yes... Now tell them
what your "control" means.
- LUCAS: Look, that watch tower at the back.
It leads to the harbour.
- SOLDIER: Get ready, men.
We'll move our lodge to the docks soon.
- AMICIA: The docks?
That's where we're going, isn't it?
- LUCAS: Those cages
in their cart, I think...
...dead bodies from the arena.
- AMICIA: So this is where they take them.
- LUCAS: Amicia, when we're there.
You hold your sling, alright?
We don't need another...
... ... situation.
So... no more killing soldiers.
- AMICIA: Don't worry.
I heard you the first time.
I'll find other ways.
- LUCAS: We're here.
- AMICIA: Right.
- LUCAS: You...
...asked me to ask Magister Vaudin
about the island.
The fresco in his lodge.
- AMICIA: What did he say?
- LUCAS: He said it's just a symbol.
- LUCAS: I know... The island...
The Macula waking up the Order.
It's too much.
- AMICIA: Glad to hear you say it.
It helps me not to feel alone in this.
- LUCAS: You're not.
I'm here.
I'm sorry, Amicia...
For Hugo.
- AMICIA: He's not dead yet.
- LUCAS: Alright.
Remember... No more killing soldiers.
No more killing us.
- AMICIA: I got it.
No kills... No being spotted.
Let's get this boat.
We're here.
So where's our boat?
- LUCAS: Red and wide sail.
Right there.
- AMICIA: It's still there. Good.
- LUCAS: I hope our pilot is too.
- AMICIA: Good point.
- SOLDIER: Come on.
We should be at the gate already.
- AMICIA: There they are.
Keep moving. Quiet.
- SOLDIER 1: Get off my back.
We can't afford to break these jars.
- SOLDIER 2: The city is running out of time.
- SOLDIER 1: The city needs
these jars intact. So settle down.
- SOLDIER 2: You're not arguing, soldier!
Move, move!
- LUCAS: What are they doing?
This lockdown is gonna get them all killed.
- AMICIA: Yes... It's going to be terrible.
- SOLDIER: Alright, open the gate.
Get in position.
- LUCAS: Look at that wall...
- AMICIA: Yes.
They built it in a hurry.
And it's blocking our path to the boat.
- LUCAS: Let's get closer.
- AMICIA: Let's see that gate.
Soldiers. Helmeted.
We'll have to sneak around.
- LUCAS: Hopefully there's a sideway
to pass that gate.
- AMICIA: What do you think is behind it?
- SOLDIER 1: You believe
they'll make it this time?
- SOLDIER 2: I believe nothing.
I just know bodies
keep coming from the city.
And we aren't too many of our own.
- SOLDIER 1: I should've gone
to see my mother when I could.
- SOLDIER 2: Pray.
It's all we have left.
- SOLDIER 1: That's not much.
- AMICIA: Through here.
- LUCAS: Yes.
- AMICIA: Oh... No...
Lord...
It looks... like a battlefield.
- LUCAS: What...
...happened here?
- AMICIA: I don't know.
Let's follow that cart.
And keep our eyes opened.
- LUCAS: I think...
I know what happened to this place.
- AMICIA: And they're repeating
the same mistake.
(GROUND RUMBLING)
- LUCAS: Don't go any further, Amicia.
- AMICIA: Oh Lord!
Stay back!
- LUCAS: Impossible.
- AMICIA: There are so many.
How are we going to cross that?
That liquid on the ground,
it's from their jars.
- LUCAS: It smells like tar.
If it is, it's... it's highly flammable.
Try setting it on fire.
- AMICIA: Yes... yes. Let's try.
- AMICIA: Careful with those flames.
- LUCAS: That brazier... It can be pushed.
- AMICIA: Yes.
This is all wrong.
- LUCAS: Let's hope Marseille is different.
- AMICIA: Wait until the rats invade it.
- LUCAS: Amicia, the Order
will have special buildings in Marseille
Equipment. And people.
- AMICIA: People like Vaudin?
How do you think this will end?
It's staying here is dying anyway.
- LUCAS: Joseph's boat.
- AMICIA: We're getting closer.
Ah... More of them.
- LUCAS: That building on the left looks safer.
The rats destroyed the rest of the pontoon.
- AMICIA: Let's hope we'll be able to pass.
Let's try through here.
- LUCAS: Urghh...
What a mess.
- AMICIA: Wowurgh... That smell...
- LUCAS: Tar...
...makes your head spinned.
- AMICIA: I don't hear any rats.
- LUCAS: No...
But they were here.
Look at this.
- AMICIA: Lord...
What is all this?
- LUCAS: A tar workshop.
They must've used it to seal boat holes.
These mechanisms are still intact.
- AMICIA: It smells different here.
- LUCAS: Resin.
This is a mixing pool.
That barrel up there must be the ....
- AMICIA: We should move on.
Oh no!
- LUCAS: Stay back!
- LUCAS: Don't panic! We have resin.
It just need that ... up there
and we'll get tar.
- AMICIA: A pool of tar.
That could be our way
to that door in the back.
- LUCAS: That barrel is pretty high though.
- AMICIA: We could find a way to reach it.
- LUCAS: Let's see.
These ropes make the platform move.
- AMICIA: We must get over there.
So we're making tar now.
- LUCAS: I know.
But it shouldn't take us long.
- AMICIA: Well, let's get to it.
- AMICIA: I'm letting go. Hang on.
- LUCAS: Come back to the basin.
- AMICIA: Coming.
- AMICIA: Are we ready?
- LUCAS: Yes... Let's make that tar.
- AMICIA: Do you know the quantities?
- LUCAS: No, I'm improvising.
- AMICIA: Please, don't kill us.
- LUCAS: Good.
I think you could light it up.
- AMICIA: Alright.
- LUCAS: Let's see would our tar work.
- AMICIA: Here we go.
Hah... It's working!
- LUCAS: Yes!
Well... that's one step.
- AMICIA: What now? I'm stuck.
- LUCAS: Wait...
I think they...
...experiment with some ingredients here.
Yes, that could work.
I'll throw it to you.
- AMICIA: Those beasts are really close!
- LUCAS: Here...
Say when you're ready to catch.
- AMICIA: Go.
- LUCAS: You got resin and alcohol now.
Mix them.
- AMICIA: Done.
- AMICIA: Please work.
- LUCAS: Let's see would our tar work.
- AMICIA: Perfect!
- LUCAS: Yes!
That last pool there
is already full of tar.
- AMICIA: Coming.
- AMICIA: Anyway, thank you.
- LUCAS: No need for that.
Our boat should be straight ahead, right?
- AMICIA: Don't be too sure about that.
- LUCAS: Listen, Amicia...
About Hugo...
I was stuck between Magister Vaudin
and your mother and...
I have no excuse...
I was wrong...
- AMICIA: It's just...
I wasn't prepared.
I can't lose him.
I can't.
- LUCAS: We'll do what's right.
- AMICIA: We will.
Through here.
- LUCAS: Look! Over there!
Joseph's ship.
- AMICIA: Yes, let's go.
Hurghh... They're here.
It's infested down there.
- LUCAS: Wait, look.
- AMICIA: Lord...
I'm done trusting any of them.
- LUCAS: Yes.
- AMICIA: Let's see that boat.
- SOLDIER: It's a public health matter.
You should've left
when you're still could, Joseph.
- JOSEPH: I'm waiting for a client
and I'm always on my contract, my friend.
- SOLDIER: Consider your contract cancel then.
The harbour is locked down and you're trespassing.
- LUCAS: He's our man.
- AMICIA: Yes.
And trouble's coming.
We need to move.
- JOSEPH: Alright, you know what...
I've got better place to be.
- SOLDIER: No! You've seen too much.
I'm arresting you!
- JOSEPH: Oh... come on...
You know what?
Piss off!
(BODY THUDS)
(SPITS)
- AMICIA: Joseph, wait!
- JOSEPH: Stay where you are!
- AMICIA: We're here
on behalf of Magister Vaudin.
We need to leave town.
- JOSEPH: What'd you think I'm doing?
This place is a mess.
- LUCAS: Please! We're stuck here!
There's a child with us.
- JOSEPH: Alright, alright.
Meet me at the next pontoon.
- SOLDIER: Who are you?
Where are the captain?
Shit...
Intruders!! Oof...
- JOSEPH: Move! Now!
- AMICIA: Yes... Come on!
- JOSEPH: Damn!
I thought you'd never make it.
Come.
- AMICIA: Thanks for not letting us down.
- LUCAS: And for the helping hand.
- JOSEPH: Well... You did your part.
Now, where is the rest of the group?
- AMICIA: In town,
getting ready to leave.
I need...
(GROUND RUMBLING)
(SCREECHING SOUND)
Hugo...
What have they done?
I'll go get them
You come get us
on the docks by the house.
- LUCAS: Be careful.
- JOSEPH: What's going on?
(SCREECHING SOUND)
- WOMAN: What do you think it was?
- MAN: I don't know. It wakes me up.
- AMICIA: Up there... The house.
- SOLDIER: Curfew is under effect.
Go back to your own!
- MAN: What's going on? Tell us the truth!
- WOMAN: Enough lies.
(GROUND RUMBLING)
- AMICIA: No... No! Run! All of you!
(INTENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
No No!
(SCREAMING)
Hugo, what's going on?
What did they do to you?
Oh Lord... I told them...
I told them this would happen...
I'm sure it's that goddamn Vaudin!!
There!
The house! I can do it!
What?
Oh no... No no!!
Come on, come on!!
Please! Stop this!
Please, Hugo, stop this!
I'm coming to you!
Come on!
Move faster!
You goddamn demons!!
Oh no!
Hugo...
Almost... there...
I'm here... HUGO! It's me!
- HUGO: (GROANING)
- VAUDIN: He's your son! Do something!
Ah... The Protector, finally!
- BÉATRICE: He won't calm down.
I don't know what to do.
- AMICIA: Let me...
Hugo! Hugo, I'm here.
Shhh... Calm down...
Please... please!
I know why you're upset... Shhh...
Hugo... Please... Shhh...
Hey!
- HUGO: I had a nightmare.
- AMICIA: I know.
- HUGO: What happened?
- BÉATRICE: We should get out.
Before everything collapses.
- AMICIA: Yes... Lucas must be waiting
at the docks. Let's go.
- BÉATRICE: Amicia...
I should carry him.
- AMICIA: I'll do it.
- BÉATRICE: The city's...
...gone.
All of it.
- AMICIA: We have to leave.
- BÉATRICE: This is...
...unprecedented.
- HUGO: What...
What's going on?
I feel...
...dizzy.
- AMICIA: Nothing.
Go back to sleep.
(SOFT & SAD MUSIC PLAYING)
- BÉATRICE: These people...
- AMICIA: It's too late. Keep going.
- HUGO: Is that...?
- HUGO: No...
I...
- AMICIA: Don't look...
Keep your eyes closed.
- HUGO: Amicia...
What happened?
- AMICIA: It's...
...the rats...
They attacked.
- HUGO: No... NO...
No...
- BÉATRICE: We're leaving, Hugo.
- AMICIA: I'm sorry.
- BÉATRICE: Calm down... Please...
- HUGO: No...
It's my fault.
- BÉATRICE: No.
Dreams are dreams, alright?
I'll give you something on the boat.
It'll calm you down.
- BÉATRICE: It will.
In Marseille, they'll help you.
- HUGO: It's not true.
- BÉATRICE: We'll find a way.
We'll...
We will.
- LUCAS: Are you alright?
I thought you were...
- BÉATRICE: We're all unharmed, Lucas.
- LUCAS: Come aboard, quick.
- BÉATRICE: It's only us...
Magister Vaudin...
- JOSEPH: I see... Let's not waste time then.